labs/lab03-sca/README.md, before:

# Lab02 - Software Composition Analysis (SCA)

## Find vulnerabilities from dependencies

Try to find vulnerabilities in the example apps. There are multiple ways to do it but I would suggest starting from OWASP Dependency Check because it is most versatile. Finding vulnerabilities is in theory straightforward but tricky thing is that different tools might host their own vulnerability database or solely focus on one tech stack.

## Links

- How to write warnings and errors in GitHub workflows: <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#setting-a-warning-message>
- Toolkit functions for easier failure: <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#using-workflow-commands-to-access-toolkit-functions>
- GitHub Action for OWASP Dependency Check: <https://github.com/dependency-check/Dependency-Check_Action>
- Dotnet native way to find vulns: <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/concepts/auditing-packages#dotnet-list-package---vulnerable>
- RetireJS to find JS vulns: <https://github.com/RetireJS/retire.js/tree/master/node>
- NPM audit to find vulns in Node projects: <https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npm-audit>

## Example solution

It is better to try by yourself first, but when you are done with that here is a solution for the task

- Code: <https://github.com/Rinorragi/ci-security/blob/main/.github/workflows/lab03-software-composition-analysis.yml>
- Runs: <https://github.com/Rinorragi/ci-security/actions/workflows/lab03-software-composition-analysis.yml>

<details>
  <summary>Spoiler warning - more info about solution</summary>
  
### OWASP Dependency Check

It creates a nice HTML report which finds the NuGet and JS vulnerabilities hidden in the solution.

### dotnet list package --vulnerable --include-transitive

Requires a bit of ducktape around to make it suitable for build pipelines. Although it is very convenient way to test when you are building e.g. .NET API. Even when the dotnet application is build purely from .NET template it does not find the JS vulnerabilities which came with the template.

### RetireJS

Has multiple ouput options and fits nicely to build pipeline. Although it naturally misses the NuGet vulnerabilities and only reports the JS ones.

</details>

Commit message:

Lab03 - dependabot and dependency review

labs/lab03-sca/README.md, after:

# Lab02 - Software Composition Analysis (SCA)

## Find vulnerabilities from dependencies

Try to find vulnerabilities in the example apps. There are multiple ways to do it but I would suggest starting from OWASP Dependency Check because it is most versatile. Finding vulnerabilities is in theory straightforward but tricky thing is that different tools might host their own vulnerability database or solely focus on one tech stack.

## Links

- Dependendency review: <https://github.com/actions/dependency-review-action>
- Dependabot: <https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/dependabot-quickstart-guide>
- How to write warnings and errors in GitHub workflows: <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#setting-a-warning-message>
- Toolkit functions for easier failure: <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#using-workflow-commands-to-access-toolkit-functions>
- GitHub Action for OWASP Dependency Check: <https://github.com/dependency-check/Dependency-Check_Action>
- Dotnet native way to find vulns: <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/concepts/auditing-packages#dotnet-list-package---vulnerable>
- RetireJS to find JS vulns: <https://github.com/RetireJS/retire.js/tree/master/node>
- NPM audit to find vulns in Node projects: <https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npm-audit>

## Example solution

It is better to try by yourself first, but when you are done with that here is a solution for the task

- Code: <https://github.com/Rinorragi/ci-security/blob/main/.github/workflows/lab03-software-composition-analysis.yml>
- Runs: <https://github.com/Rinorragi/ci-security/actions/workflows/lab03-software-composition-analysis.yml>

<details>
  <summary>Spoiler warning - more info about solution</summary>
  
### OWASP Dependency Check

It creates a nice HTML report which finds the NuGet and JS vulnerabilities hidden in the solution.

### dotnet list package --vulnerable --include-transitive

Requires a bit of ducktape around to make it suitable for build pipelines. Although it is very convenient way to test when you are building e.g. .NET API. Even when the dotnet application is build purely from .NET template it does not find the JS vulnerabilities which came with the template.

### RetireJS

Has multiple ouput options and fits nicely to build pipeline. Although it naturally misses the NuGet vulnerabilities and only reports the JS ones.

### Dependabot

Dependabot has also noticed need for updates that can be found from: <https://github.com/Rinorragi/ci-security/pulls>

</details>
